Now, before we go on, I'd like to be clear about something I do not mean to make light of assault
or abuse or anyone's experiences with it, despite my humorous demeanor.
I have been through my share of it too.
And I do understand.
-- is hard.
But who says it can't be funny to?
Humor is just one of nature's fun little ways of adding some humanity and perspective to a situation
that seems void of that like violence and pain and fear.
These are very real things we all struggle with, which can give us a common experience on which to
connect, which is great because connecting is hard, man.
So sometimes a little laughter can help them along and make us all feel a little less sad and hurt and
afraid and alone.
Everyone's story is different and everyone's story is valid.
My humor is not meant to make little of that, but rather to help bring some honesty and humanity and,
dare I say, empowerment back into the subject.
Something that'll help us all connect and communicate with one another because there are more of us
out there who relate to this than we realize.
You and I are not alone.
And the only way we're going to get through all of this is together.
That doesn't mean we let the fear and insecurity win, and it certainly doesn't mean we allow it to
happen again.
That's why you're here to learn how to fight back.
But you can learn how to defend yourself and have fun at the same time.
It sounds blasphemous, but it's true.
Now, assault and abuse are no joke.
But that doesn't mean you can't enjoy your life while you're trying to protect it.
In fact, it can actually help if you do, because if you let the fear drive, if you constantly keep
your guard up and you never let anyone in, then you're not actually being stronger.
And you can still get hurt, all although having a really horrible time.
If you worry too much about protecting your life, then you're not fully living your life.
And that's no way to live.
This -- is hard enough already.
There is no need to make it harder on yourself because when you do, they win the harassers and the
abusers and the rapists.
Then they've won because then they've made you as small as they think you are.
But you are not small, you are strong and powerful and amazing.
And if you can have the confidence to see that and to wear it proudly, then you will actually make
yourself less of an easy target and hopefully enjoy your life more too.
Humor can also help you deal with the aftermath of an attack.
Of course, it's OK to feel sad and hurt and frustrated.
Those feelings are very understandable and valid, but laughter can also be fantastic therapy.
It can help you find a bit of respite and humanity in a moment that feels empty and lacking.
Of that, laughter is not the opposite of sadness.
Happiness is the opposite of sadness.
LAUGHTER is merely a reaction.
It's free to exist in both, and for some people, it's a very legitimate and effective way to deal
with sadness or pain.
LAUGHTER is also a common response to trauma.
Sometimes, even during the actual act, let's do a quick neuroscience lesson.
When faced with a threatening situation, your brain slows down the prefrontal cortex, which is the
part of your brain that helps assess the situation, create a complex plan and consciously decide what
to do next.
It instead redirects that power to the amygdala and hippocampus, which deploy a pre-programmed security
protocol in response to the trauma you are experiencing.
That could include finding, complying or even laughing.
All of which are designed to appease abusers, avoid life threatening situations or help you cope with
them.
So while it may feel weird or even a little shameful to laugh in the situation, it is a perfectly normal
way to respond.
There is nothing wrong with it or with you, so don't feel guilty if this resonates with you.
And don't judge if it doesn't.
Everyone deals with things differently.
So you do you, even if that means having a giggle with yourself?
I certainly do frequently, though, even if that means I look a little crazy or sometimes say things
that sound kind of -- up.
That's just my way of connecting and coping.
So whatever your process, I wouldn't dare judge.
In the end, we're all trying to do the same thing.
Just keep on living as fully and freely and happily as possible.
So let's learn some self-defense.
Let's learn how to protect this precious, precious life we've been given.
Let's build some confidence and embrace that vulnerability that makes you intuitive and strong and maybe
have little fun while we're at it.
That's how we do it, the tough cookie way.
So.